# Lab 1: C Practice

This is the starting readme for this assignment. Please edit the following information by removing the "edit me" and replace it with appropriate information your assignment. If it is asking you a question, please provide a response. 

    Name: edit me
    Github Account Name: edit me
    How many hours did it take you to complete this assignment? edit me
    Did you collaborate with any other students/TAs/Professors? If so, tell us who and in what capacity.
        edit me (add more rows if needed)
    Did you use any external resources? (Cite them below)
        edit me
        edit me and add more rows if needed

For this assignment, don't forget to include the screenshots in your repository in .png or .pdf format!

Logistics

For this assignment (and every assignment/lab), you must login into the servers through your_khoury_name@login.khoury.northeastern.edu to complete and test your work. The reason is that this is a consistent architecture where your submission will be graded.

Important notes

    Your code must compile and run on the Khoury machines to earn credit. Make sure you test your programs on these machines, as this is where we grade your assignments.

# Instructions

You should now know some of the basics of the C language. This lab will help you practice applying your new knowledge. The lab has 2 parts. In part 1, you'll write your first program from scratch. In part 2, you'll be given a program that has bugs in it and will have to fix the bugs so it runs. Remember, you are allowed to develop locally, but you will be graded on whether your solutions work on the Khoury servers. Refer to the labs and homework from last week to remind yourself how to get access to the Khoury servers.

## Part 1
Inside your repo you've been given a program called `power.c` to fill out.

1. Create a function with the signature `long power(int base, unsigned int n)`. You should write a function that performs exponentiation for positive numbers, raising the base passed into the power of n. You CANNOT import the math.h library for this assignment. This function should work for any positive integer base and any positive integer n, until we begin to have problems storing large number results.

2. Your main program will call your `power` function **in a loop** to test it, computing the first 10 powers of two from `power(2,1)` to `power(2,10)`. Print out these results to the terminal with a statement "2 to the power of <x> is: <answer>", where <x> is the loop variable and <answer> is the result your function returns. So it should read "2 to the power of 1 is: 2" for the first time the function is called in the loop. You have to compute all the results from  and print each of them. Do not take in any user input. 
Note: Your power function only needs to handle positive values.

3. You must compile your program with: `gcc -Wall -Werror power.c -o power` to see if it works. You can then type `./power` to run the program

4. Once you have a working program, remember to add/commit/push your files to your repo. We do not need to include any of the temporary files that may be generated by the compiler. We have included a file called .gitignore that will prevent you from adding these temporary files but you should try to avoid adding the executable as well.

5. Your program cannot use the `math.h` library, and it must not use any other library function that calculates exponents. The whole point of this exercise is that you're writing a function that calculates exponents itself given the parameters base and n.
   
## OPTIONAL Part 2 (NOT GRADED)
ðŸ‘‰ðŸ½ **Task** ðŸ‘ˆðŸ½: Fix main.c

1. Open the file `main.c` in your IDE or text editor.
2. Read through the documented code. 
3. Compile `main.c`. Make sure you are using the `-Wall` flag. 
   * The command will be `gcc -Wall -Werror main.c -o main`
   * If you do that, you can then run the program by typing `./main` in the terminal. 

4. You will notice there are warnings when you compile using the clang compiler! This would cause the code to fail in the autograder as your code has to compile without warnings.
    **FIX**: Fix the warnings in the code. 
5. Now look at the logic of the program. Proper execution of the program looks like the following
```text
Please enter your name: Bob
Please enter a number: 20

Hello Bob
You are not old enough to drink in the US
Goodbye Bob
```
or
```text
Please enter your name: Jane
Please enter a number: 21

Hello Jane
You are old enough to drink in the US
Goodbye Jane
```
6. **FIX**: Fix the logic of the program so that it works as expected. Spaces between : and the name/number are required, as are the new lines. Make sure you run the program before trying to fix it, as there may be an unusual error that you can't see in the code (it may actually cause the program to crash)

> A note on "Free"  
> In C, you have to manually free memory that you allocate. This is because C is a low level language, and it is up to the programmer to manage memory. In higher level languages, such as Python, Java, or C#, the language will automatically free memory for you. This is why you don't have to worry about it in those languages. However, what happens if you "free" memory, and then attempt to access the variable? This is called a "use after free" error, and it can cause a lot of problems. Use this knowledge to help find the mystery error. 

### :star: REMINDER :star:
Make sure to commit between each change! For example, you fix spaces, you do a git commit -m'fixed spaces in strings'. Then you fix the return statement, you do a `git commit -m'fixed return statement in (func name)'`. Then you fix the logic, you do a `git commit -m'fixed logic in (location)'`.
